---
layout: post
title: Becoming friends with running, Amsterdam
date: 2024-01-28 22:25:00
description:
tags: hobby
related_posts: false
# categories: sample-posts
---

Ever since primary school days, I associated running with breathlessness, extreme exertion, and fatigue. It's no surprise, as I participated in almost every school running competition without any proper training. Although I loved other sports, running was never my thing. Even though I attempted to change it numerous times, I always failed.

Everything changed when I accidentally joined my sister for a run. Her pace was much slower than what I considered "mine”. I had to stop myself from running fast. Surprisingly, after the run, I felt energised, joyful, and happy about the experience. Quite a difference from the usual I can't catch a breath feeling. The next day, we went for another run. The post run impressions were the same. I realised that perhaps I had never approached running in the right way. Always pushing it to the max.

In the meantime, I signed up for a 1/4 Iron Man. This gave me extra motivation to sit down and research a bit about running plans. 

Full disclosure: I'm a newbie, so take my advice with a grain, or handful, of salt.

Now, four months into this training journey, I run three times a week and continually improve my personal best across various distances. I'm currently in my top running form, and I'd like to share a few things that made this transformation possible.

* **MAKE IT ENJOYABLE:** I mostly run at feel-good pace, and treat them as an opportunity to unwind.

* **HAVE A GOAL:** Signing up for a triathlon has provided extra motivation to build a solid running foundation.

* **SCHEDULE RUNS:** I run on set days. Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays (+/- one day depending on special circumstances). I don't need to thing about whether it's a good time for a run. I just do it.

* **VARIETY OF TRAININGS:** On Mondays, I run at a feel-good pace. Wednesdays, similarly, and if I feel up to it, I do random interval running. Saturdays are dedicated to slow, long runs. I do them with a friend. Combining running with socialising and post-run treat in form of coffee and cake combo feels like killing two birds with one stone (I love animals).

* **GEAR:** I invested in a pair of training shoes. They have good cushioning so I'm not afraid I'll harm myself. Moreover, it would be a pity they dusted on a shoe rack.

Special thanks to XXX, whose knowledge laid the foundation for the plan outlined above.